

===== PAGE 80 =====

79 
 
Multi-Race Options 
Aligned Elf 
While the Elves were all formed differently they all, to a greater or lesser degree, contain most elements within them. 
Sometimes these powers flow to the surface and the elf’s very nature is changed. The result is they end up becoming attuned 
to a second magical power. Effectively this race allows an Elf (or Drave) to multi-race to another type of Elf (or Drave). It 
may not be their opposite, and they must be of the appropriate alignment to be the new elven type. 
Post-6th, may buy apply x2 and x3 Elf innates if bought to both elf-types for the same cost (i.e. if has bought x2 elven 
innates, both original and new innates are doubled). 
 
 
LEVEL ABILITIES 
  1 All abilities by level as the new chosen elf type of multi-race level.  Must wear makeup of both elf 
types, with new colour predominant. 
  2 As above. 
  3 As above. 
  4 As above. 
  5 As above. 
  6 As above, but now calculates innates as if 8th level. 
 
 
Angel of Mercy 
Although many Goodly Churches and religions are warlike, there are often individuals who are not willing or able to fight 
alongside their brethren. For these an accepted role is that of the healing priest who try their best to keep the life-force of 
their allies strong against all opposition. When such an individual is chosen for the honour of ascension to the ranks of the 
Angels, the powers granted them differ subtly from those given to their warlike comrades.   
This race is available to any Goodly aligned Priest.   
Characters with half a spirit pay double for this race. 
 
 
LEVEL ABILITIES 
  1 Now fully Immune to Flesh and Blood Effects of all sorts (inc. all potions, pain etc.).  Counts fully 
as Angelkind.  
Their skin is often marked with lines of goodly power, white and gold being the most frequent. 
  2 May Walk on Light(s) spiritually x1/2 levels, otherwise as per wizard spell (40,). 
  3 May shed Spiritual Light in a 10' radius for five minutes, x1/3 levels (40,). 
  4 May cast a Shield of the Angels x1/3 levels - in all ways as Spirit Shield, except that it only stops 
evil spiritual damage, and instead stops the first 36 points of such damage (45, 4). 
  5 May Walk through Walls for five minutes x1/3 levels, as per miracle (80, 2). 
  6 Touch removes Fear from non-Evil targets with a spirit, for 3 TBLP, at will. 
 
  


===== PAGE 81 =====

80 
 
 
Angel of War 
Many are the Goodly Gods who preach that the only way for peace to prevail is with the death of evil.  Their followers tend 
to be of a martial nature and those who earn themselves the greatest favour of their deity are sometimes chosen to join the 
ranks of the heavenly Host of Angels that do their god's bidding.  These favoured mortals naturally tend to be priests, but it 
is not unknown for an especially devout lay believer to be chosen for this honour.  This race is available to all goodly, non-
elf/drave/faerie classes.  Characters with half a spirit pay double cost to purchase it.  Tribal characters of a tribe with an evil 
Shaman may not purchase this race.  Characters who are neither Priests nor Paladins must purchase the Devout Believer 
multi-class to level six before they can purchase beyond level one in this race. 
 
LEVEL ABILITIES 
  1 Now fully Immune to Flesh and Blood Effects of all sorts (inc. all potions, pain etc.).  Counts as 
Angelkind. 
Their skin is often marked with lines of goodly power, white and gold being the most frequent.  
  2 May Fear all Evil of 6th level (18 hits) and below for five minutes, x1/2 levels (50, 3).  This affects 
undead creatures. 
  3 May shed Spiritual Light in a 10' radius for five minutes, x1/3 levels (40, 6). 
  4 Hand of Purity as per tables ability x1/day (70, 2). 
  5 May Walk through Walls for five minutes x1/3 levels, as per miracle (80, 2). 
  6 May summon a purely Spiritual weapon of their choice which only they may wield x1/day.  This 
weapon is +0/+2 vs. Evil and cannot harm the Good aligned, lasts 15 minutes (60, 2). 
 
Angel Touched 
It is not uncommon for the Gods of Light to watch over those that serve them, or for people to be born to both Human and 
Angel. Or even to be infused with the spirits of light. Whatever the reason, some are touched with the powers of Angels. 
 
LEVEL ABILITIES 
  1 Now suffers ½ effect from all Flesh and Blood Effects (Includes potions, poisons, and pain). 
  2 May select a Minor Power from the list below. 
  3 Gains Immunity to Ageing. 
  4 May select a Medium Power from the list below. 
  5 Divine Insight 1/day – Acts as a Mantic Major Prayer but can only be used to find out how to help 
others/defeat evil. 
  6 Gains a Major Power from the below list. 
 
 
Minor – 
 Gains complete Immunity to Flesh and Blood Effects. 
 Spiritual Light Range 1/2 levels – As per a Minor Angel. 
 Halo of Light 1/2 levels - Fear Evil 3 levels and below, lasts 5 minutes. This specifically affects undead based on 
their dismiss level. 
 Angelic Shield 1/2 Levels – Grants the user ¼ off all damage from an evil source (this includes effects cast by an 
evil individual). Lasts 5 minutes. 
 
Medium – 
 Walk through Walls (As Wayfinder ability) 1/3 levels 
 Halo of Heaven 1/3 levels - Fear Evil 6 levels and below, lasts 5 minutes. This specifically effects undead based on 
their dismiss level. 
 Angelic Armour 1/3 Levels – Grants 1/3rd off all damage from an evil source (this includes effects cast by an evil 
individual). Lasts 5 minutes. 
 Summon Angelic Blade 1/3 Levels – Summons a +2 pure spirit weapon that can only harm evil. Lasts 15 minutes. 
 
  


===== PAGE 82 =====

81 
 
Major – May choose one from: 
 Angelic Halo 1/day - Fear Evil 8 levels and below, lasts 5 minutes.  
 Gains 12 goodly spirits usable on handbook goodly miracles. These are separate to other spirits and can only be 
regained by a good night’s sleep. 
 Angelic Warding 1/day – Grants the user ½ effect all damage from an evil source (including effects cast by an evil 
individual). Lasts 5 minutes. 
 Gain a permanent Enhance Spirit. 
  
Post-6th: May buy one additional Minor Power for 100pts, one additional Medium Power for 150pts and one additional 
Major Power for 200pt. 
Can buy Spirit Sight innates as per a Paladin. 
The Angel Touched may also buy Utilise Good Spirit Item for 100 points. 
 
Child of the Pines 
It is known that some who call themselves human are not wholly so; all know of the half-elven, who cannot often hide their 
heritage thanks to the physical marks they carry from their forebears.  However, not so many are aware that in the veins of 
some human lines runs the blood of fey creatures.  The fey are so many and varied that it has been suggested that they are, 
in fact, many different races themselves - one of the most well-known types of fey is that known as dryads, or People of the 
Trees, or other names given them by superstitious wood-cutters and village-folk.  They are very beautiful to look upon, and 
when one should have a child by some human lost in the woods, if that child should show too many human features it is left 
to be found by villagers.  Still, it is not unknown for the offspring of such unions to begin to show signs of their parentage in 
early adulthood... 
This race is available to Human, Half-Elf, Half-Drave, Alfar or Halfling who has an aspect of Neutral in their alignment 
(NG,NE,NN,LN,CN only). 
 
LEVEL ABILITIES 
  1 Must wear appropriate brown/green tree-like makeup.  Immune to all Flesh and Blood Effects, 
including potions and poisons, except that they still bleed sap and are affected by Earthpower Flesh 
and Blood Effects where appropriate.  May never use or benefit from red mana. 
  2 Now has a permanent Barkskin granting +1 PAC (stacking with other Barkskins).  May spend 5 
minutes in unmoving contact with ‘fertile soil’ (entirely at ref’s discretion, a place where plants 
could grow) to be healed 1 tblp and 1 to worst loc.  It is permissible to talk, cast and even fight 
during this period as long as contact with the earth is not broken, even for a split second. 
  3 Now takes x2 damage from fire after all other calculations.  If Immunity to Fire is possessed still 
takes ½ damage from normal fires.  May never acquire complete immunity.   
May Meld with Trees x1/2 levels, as per Meld with Stone.  However, takes 1pt per grade of damage 
inflicted on the tree, and should tree be destroyed completely is left on 6/1 life.  May end 
prematurely if desired (50,). 
  4 Permanent Barkskin now grants +2 PAC from +1.  Now takes x2 damage from axe-blows after all 
other calculations.  Healing Sap - if deliberately cuts self to draw forth 3 tblp of sap (and 1 pt to the 
cut location), a flesh-and-blood drinker is cured 6 tblp and 2 to each loc.  If applied as a balm to a 
Wood Elf or a Child of the Pines (including self) will be cured 6 tblp and 3 to that location.  This can 
be done x1/level (10, ) 
  5 Forest-Shift x1/3 levels, as druidic evocation but no verbal required (75, 4).  May be used with no 
tree present but takes 30 seconds to ‘plant themselves’ on appropriately earthen ground. 
  6 Now takes 1/3rd less damage from blunt weapon-blows, due to woody consistency. 
 
 
 
 
 
  


===== PAGE 83 =====

82 
 
Demon Bound 
With the mystical nature of Primus many are touched with Demonic Power. Some are born that way, or as a result of 
Demonic pacts. Whatever the case the powers they exhibit are all infernal and evil. To take this race a character must 
have a spirit and be evil. 
 
LEVEL ABILITIES 
  1 Now suffers ½ effect from all Flesh and Blood Effects (Includes potions, poisons, and pain). 
  2 May select a Minor Power from the list below. 
  3 Gains Immunity to Ageing 
  4 May select a Medium Power from the list below. 
  5 Feed the Soul 1/day – Takes 30 seconds over a recently (this day) dead body with a spirit. Acts as 
per the ability Slayer on the body, but also cures the user 12/12 via evil spiritual means. 
  6 Gains a Major Power from the below list. 
 
 
Minor – 
 Gains complete Immunity to Flesh and Blood Effects. 
 Infernal Armour 1/2 Levels – Grants ¼ off weapon blows for 5 Minutes. 
 Honeyed Words 1/2 levels – Allows the users to Mantically (Evil Spirits/Black Mana) Beguile others by gaze at 
will for 5 minutes. This beguile effects those with 4 level resistances or less. 
 Demonic Deception 1/2 Levels – Allows the user to answer one informational effect used about them as they wish. 
The answer must be plausible and the user must be aware the effect has been used about them. 
 
Medium – 
 Body of War 1/3 levels – Grants the Demon 6 points off weapon blows that have a physical component. Lasts 5 
minutes. 
 Infernal Shield 1/3 levels – Grants the user 1/3rd off weapon blows for 5 minutes. 
 Mantic Beguile effecting 8 levels and below 1/2 levels. 
 Hidden Form – Allow the Demon to alter their form to pass through the world. This acts as per the Altunhurst 
shape shifting ability but allows them to transform themselves into any standard race. 
 
Major – 
 Feeding the Soul now becomes usable 1/30 minutes. 
 Infernal Body 1/day – Grants the user 1/2 effect weapon blows for 5 minutes. 
 Cloak of the Unholy 1/3 levels – Grants the user Demonic Deception (as per the basic talent) at will for 5 minutes. 
 Dark Compact – May write an agreement between the writer and one individual. The agreement must be 
understood by both parties. If signed, it acts as per a Demonic (Black/Red/Evil spirit in colour) Oath (as per the 
Ivory spell) with 6 additional mana in it. This may be used at will, but each use costs the writer a level (as per a 
level drain, but immunity to level drain does not apply). 
  
Post-6th: May buy one additional Minor Power for 100pts, one additional Medium Power for 150pts and one additional 
Major Power for 200pt. 
Demonic Infusion – Allows the user to either inflict Demonic (Black/Red/Evil spirit) damage with one weapon for 5 
minutes, or allows them to cast a single evil handbook miracle mantically (Black/Red/Evil spirit). These cost 60 points 
each, and 3 may be purchased. 
 
The Demon Bound may also buy Utilise Evil Spirit Item for 100 points. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


===== PAGE 84 =====

83 
 
Elder Fey 
It is hard to think of the Elder Fey as a composite race, and indeed they may not be one.  The members of the Fey vary as 
much from individual to individual as do members of quite different races of the modern world, and it may be that what we 
call the Elder Fey are in fact a number of different remnants of ancient races who have grown together over the millennia.  
Extremely rare, not least because they cannot always be identified, the only things that unite this group as a race are the 
great age of their ancestry, their possession of half a spirit (by today's standards), and the wild and unpredictable powers 
they evince.   
This race is available to any character, following the strictures outlined below. 
Elves/Fairies may choose to purchase this race and not gain any benefits from level two. In this case it is purchased at the 
same cost as a Half-Elf. 
 
LEVEL ABILITIES 
  1 Must wear (non-standard) impressive makeup and costume at all times as appropriate to the powers 
gained.  
+1 DAC. 
  2 Character now has half a spirit as per Half-Elf in all ways, Eves are no longer harmed by Dispels and 
leave a body on death (but retain their ‘non flesh-and-blood’ nature). 
  3 Gains one Minor Talent as below - to be written on card at time of purchase. 
  4 Now Immune to Ageing effects. 
  5 +2 DAC (total). 
  6 Gains one Major Talent as below - to be written on card at time of purchase. 
 
Each Elder Fey has one Minor and one Major Talent, which must be selected from the options below.  The Minor and 
Major Talents may not be selected from the same category.  Mana-users and characters who were originally Elves may not 
select Spiritual Talents unless they have Pathed then they may choose talents of the appropriate alignment.  Priests may not 
select Magical Talents unless they have Pathed, and then only of the colour of their Path.  Characters prohibited from 
acquiring Neuronics may not select Neuronic Talents.   
 
Post-6th, the Elder Fey may acquire a second Minor Talent, which may not be in the same category as his original Minor 
Talent, for 50 points.  Once this is bought, they may acquire a second Major Talent, which may not be in the same category 
as the original Major Talent, for 100 points. 
One Elder Fey might have Acute Hearing and Probe three times a day, and elect to make themselves up with large 
pointy ears and a pale skin, while another may have six innate Control Animals and PAC 5, painting their skin in heavy 
brown, green and black colours - both are acceptable.   
 
Minor Talents: 
Magical 
 Any 1st level standard spell innate x1/level (10, ). 
 Any 2nd level standard spell innate x1/2 levels (20, ). 
 Any 3rd level standard spell innate x1/3 levels (30, ). 
 Any standard 0 mana cantrip at will for 1 TBLP per use. 
 Enhanced Recognise Mana at will, 1" range - as Recognise Mana but also tells colour of any mana present. 
 Affirm x1/level, grants +1 MAC and +1 DAC, verbal "I affirm the power of my blood".  Otherwise as Elf Affirm in all 
ways (15,). 
Spiritual 
 Any 1st level handbook miracle of own alignment innate x1/level (15,). 
 Any 2nd level handbook miracle of own alignment innate x1/2 levels (25,). 
 Any 3rd level handbook miracle of own alignment innate x1/3 levels (35,). 
 Gauge Spirit at will as tables ability. 
 Discern as handbook Undead type of choice. 
 Discern Nature of Wounds by sight at will. 
  


===== PAGE 85 =====

84 
 
Earthpower 
 Any 1st level basic evocation innate x1/level (10,). 
 Any 2nd level basic evocation innate x1/2 levels (20,). 
 Any 3rd level basic evocation innate x1/3 levels (30,). 
 Recognise Earthpower to 20' range. 
 Double effect Druidic Heal evocation only (now cures 24/24) with 30 seconds concentration. In the case of elves taking 
this talent, they now take normal (12/12) effect from Druidic Heal, and ½ effect from other druidic healing which 
would otherwise not affect them. 
 Neutrality to Plants of all forms. 
Neuronic 
 Auric Colour x2/level (to at will for 20 points). 
 Neuronic Penetration x1/level (15, 8). 
 Neuronic Blast x1/2 levels (35, 6). 
 Detect Inanimate x1/2 levels (35, 6). 
 Forget x1/3 levels (50, 4). 
 Recognise Neuronics as tables ability. 
Physical 
 Acute Hearing. 
 Locational Sniff. 
 Salmon Leap x1/level (15,). 
 +2 innate PAC. 
 +3 DAC for five minutes x1/2 levels (30, 8). 
 Perception as per Ranger. 
 Mindblock at all times. 
Major Talents: 
Magical 
 Any 4th level standard spell innate x1/2 levels (40,). 
 Any 5th level standard spell innate x1/2 levels (50,). 
 Any 6th level standard spell innate x1/3 levels (60, 6). 
 Any 10th level standard spell innate x1/day (100, 6). 
 1/3 effect neutral purely spiritual damage (not cumulative with having half a spirit). 
Spiritual 
 Any 4th level handbook miracle of own alignment innate x1/3 levels (60,). 
 Any 5th level handbook miracle of own alignment innate x1/3 levels (75, 6). 
 Any 6th level handbook miracle of own alignment innate x1/day (90, 6). 
 Fear creatures of opposite alignment (select Good/Evil if Neutral) of 6th level resistance and below at will. 
 25% off purely 'mantic damage only, at all times. 
Earthpower 
 Any 4th level basic evocation innate x1/2 levels (40,). 
 Any 5th level basic evocation innate x1/2 levels (50,). 
 Any 6th level basic evocation innate x1/3 levels (60, 6). 
 Neutrality to Plants and Animals (including Giant varieties). 
 6pt damage reduction vs. non-supernatural wooden weapons at all times. 
Neuronic 
 Neuronic Bolt x1/3 levels (75, 2). 
 Displacement x1/3 levels (75, 2). 
 Psychic Crush x4/day (30, 6 for single uses). 
 Neuro Sight x1/2 levels (40, 3). 
 Psionic Probe x1/2 levels (50, 4). 


===== PAGE 86 =====

85 
 
Physical 
 50% Rage x1/day (100, 2), 25% rage x1/day (50, 2). 
 Assisted Climb at will. 
 3pt damage reduction vs. purely magical or spiritual weapons at all times. 
 Enhanced Mind Block. 
 +5 innate PAC. 
 
Elements Bound 
Some Wizards use the arts of embodying an elemental, but some bind elemental power closer to their form. Often used 
in Ishma, the practice has begun to spread to the Empire and beyond. 
This class is available to anyone in the wizard bracket. 
 
LEVEL ABILITIES 
  1 Gains Immunity to Flesh and Blood Effects as Elf (Elves gain full Immunity to Flesh and Blood 
Effects). 
May select an Elemental Colour (not grey) that may not be the opposite of any owned. 
Now has faint mystical lines of power of their chosen colour. 
  2 Gains a Minor Talent below. 
Gains Elemental Resistance (as Power Master) vs. own colour. 
  3 Elemental Sight (as per Wizards Grimoire advanced spell) 1/3 levels. 
  4 Now gains a Medium Talent 
  5 Destroy Elemental by touch 1/3 levels. Effects up to Elemental Champions. 
  6 Gains a Major Talent from below. 
 
 
Minor –  
 Gains Full Immunity to Flesh and Blood Effects (Including potions, poisons, and pain). 
 Gains a standard innate (chosen when selected) of own colour up to 5th level 1/2 Levels (50, ∞) 
 If casting Embody Elemental for own colour then no longer needs to summon an elemental to embody it. 
 May cast own colour cantrip at will for 1 TBLP. 
 Empower Weapon (as advanced spell) of own colour 1/2 levels (40, ∞). 
 
Medium –  
 Gains a standard innate (chosen when selected) of own colour 1/3 levels. (100, ∞) 
 Elemental Shift of own colour 1/2 levels. (60, 6) 
 Gains Elemental Resistance (as Power Master) to opposite Element. 
 Neutrality to Elementals of own colour. 
 
Major – 
 Embody Elemental (As spell, for own colour only) 1/3 levels (100, ∞). 
 1st time it is needed each day gains Magical live to minus 6 TBLP stacking with other live to minus. 
 Gains complete Immunity to baneful effects of own element. 
 Invoke the Magic Within 1/day gains the ability to cast a published spell of chosen colour. The spell still costs 
mana as normal. 
  
Post 6th: May now learn Embody Elemental, Bind Elemental and Arm Elemental as spells of own racial colour, even if 
not a wizard of that colour. 
May buy an extra Minor, Medium and Major Talent for 50, 100 and 150 points respectively. 
Warding against the Elements 60 points – May cast Bind Elemental (of racial colour) on self, gaining full benefits 
from it as if an elemental. This may be used while embodied despite normal restrictions. 
 
 
 
  


===== PAGE 87 =====

86 
 
Fire Daimon 
Many are the dark powers that bide their time in the nether planes, waiting for some foolish mortal to call upon them.  It is 
easy for the foolhardy, desperate or simply power-hungry to make pacts with these forces - but the price is high...  Although 
the friends and colleagues of the unfortunate mortal may suspect something is wrong, it is usually not until the body bursts 
irrevocably into flames that never consume it that the truth is finally realised.  Nevertheless, it remains the mind and 
thoughts of the supplicant which direct this fearsome combination of mortal man and denizen of the underworld.  This race 
is available to any Evil non-Elven character. Half-Elves and Half-Draves need pay only normal cost to purchase this race. 
 
LEVEL ABILITIES 
  1 Must now wear red/black, 'flaming' makeup at all times.  May Ignite by touch at will as per the Red 
cantrip.  Now gains ½ Effect Supernatural Fire, and Immunity to Natural Fire.  Counts fully as 
Daemonkind in all ways. 
  2 Mantic Shock x1/2 levels, inflicts both magical and evil spirit damage (30,). 
Now gains complete Immunity to Fire of all forms. 
Must have bought the tables ability “Immunity to Natural Fire” before buying this level but this is 
upgraded to Complete Immunity to Fire. 
  3 Mantic Fire Blast x1/3 levels, inflicts both magical and evil spirit damage (40, 6). 
  4 May invoke the fires of evil to surround their body such that all non-supernatural weapons striking 
them are burnt or melted entirely as per an aura of melt.  Unarmed damage is reduced by one grade 
unless the user is immune to normal fire.  This lasts five minutes, and is usable once per day (80, 2). 
  5 Mantic Fire Bolt x1/day, inflicts both magical and evil spirit damage (70, 4). 'Mantic Sword of 
Power x1/3 levels,   (90, 2). 
  6 Mantic Disruption x1/day, inflicts both magical and evil spirit damage (95, 3). 
 
Post-6th: May buy Immolation x1/day, for 100 points.  All creatures within 20' receive 24/4 mantic flaming damage, and 
the Daimon is healed 36pts of damage to TBLP and loc. (cf. Heal). 
 
 
Frost Giant (Northmen) 
Far to the north of the Empire, beyond the desolate plains of ice, lies the old homestead of the Northmen and Frost 
Giants. Tall men and women, often six foot or more in height, their physical prowess sent tales into the south making 
them out to be even taller than they are in reality. Their cities and civilisations crumbled at the end of the Second Age 
of Primus however knowledge of their nature has led a number of ‘large’ individuals in the south to trace this heritage 
in their blood line. This multi-race can be purchased by any race which is at least in part human, typically Humans and 
Half Elves. Whilst most native Frost Giants are of a darker moral path, those raised away from their Queen in the north 
can in fact be of any alignment path. 
A mana user who selects this option loses half their mana after all calculations have taken place, due to the naturally 
magic resistant nature of the Frost Giant Folk.  
LEVEL ABILITIES 
  1 The Northmen as descendants of the Frost Giants are all large individuals often appearing over 6’ or 
20st in size. They must incorporate white or ‘frost’ motifs into their makeup.  
Base life now calculated as if one level higher for all purposes, i.e. increased by one level of life.  
  2 Can see through all forms of supernatural darkness at all times. Resistance level to level-based 
magical spells is doubled.   
  3 May only wear armour forged by a character with the appropriate skill, and this costs twice the 
normal amount. 
A Frost Giant’s locational hits are calculated as ½ the amount of their permanent TBLP allowance.   
However should a location suffer damage as to cause it to be severed, then the Frost Giant dies.  
  4 Suffers only half damage from purely magical damaging blows or effects. 
  5 Gains Immunity to Cold as per the post eighth tables ability, if the tables ability is owned then now 
gains complete Immunity to Cold. 
Also gains +1 stacking strength, to max +3. 
  6 From level 1 & 4 abilities, now takes only half-effect magic in all ways, as per a Dwarf. 
 
  


===== PAGE 88 =====

87 
 
Full Elf 
Many Half-Elves (and Half-Draves), dissatisfied with their mixed heritage, spend their lives struggling to take after their 
elven parents.   
Those that succeed in fully emulating their elven forebears usually benefit greatly, as they maintain the more naturally hardy 
nature of their Human blood.  This race is available to any Half-Elf.   
Obviously, a Half-Elf may multi-race only to the type of Elf that matches their elven half. 
 
LEVEL ABILITIES 
  1 Now suffers full make-up requirements appropriate to the type of elf. 
  2 Gains innates and immunities specific to the type of elf, of level equal to multi-race level. 
  3 As above. 
  4 As above. 
  5 As above. 
  6 Loses spirit and all spiritual abilities - is now treated as an Elf for purposes of all abilities and 
restrictions - however retains human base TBLP and loc. as before.  Is now injured by Dispels, etc. 
 
Post-6th: Buys as elf.   
If Full Elf innates were bought previously, they are not cumulative with the innates and abilities granted by this multi-race 
until 6th level is reached, at which point they replace the tables Elf ability Double Elven Innates entirely (which ability may 
not then be bought). 
 
 
Golem 
There are many ways of using supernatural power and artifice to enhance and even replace the body of a willing 
creature.  The changes to the form tend to strengthen it in similar ways, although the power used can vary.  In all cases 
the character is assumed to have undergone a voluntary process, probably with outside assistance, to transform 
themselves.   
Characters who choose this race become similar to the more common golems encountered while adventuring but retain 
their own intelligence, and therefore are not quite identical. 
This race is available to any character with magical power, either from their class or from their race.  Unlike normal 
multi-classes and races, magical power acquired from multi-classing is sufficient to meet the prerequisites – so a 
warrior multi-classed to warlock would be eligible for this class. 
 
LEVEL ABILITIES 
  1 Must select one of the below ‘construct types’.  Immunity to all Flesh and Blood Effects, including 
potions, poisons, and pain.  Must wear makeup of the appropriate style/colour. 
Life-points by level are calculated as on the below chart, dependent on original class’s life scale. 
May not have more than DAC 6, ever.  May not use Sniff or Locational Sniff skills. 
  2 +1 PAC innate due to dense form.  May not travel at greater than ¾ speed, should be role-played in a 
lumbering heavy way.  Combat and weapon blows are not affected, but clearly this would prevent 
use of forearm parry. 
Minor Power as below – though to gain it must possess the listed prerequisite.  
  3 Medium Power as below. 
  4 +2 PAC total. 
  5 Now completely Immune to Aging. 
Major Power as below. 
  6 +3 PAC total.  Now requires 5 grades of strength to move physically if dead, unconscious or 
helpless.  May not use physical Jump abilities. 
 
 
 
 
 
  


===== PAGE 89 =====

88 
 
Life-Scales 
 
ORIGINAL LIFE  (@8TH LEVEL) NEW LIFESCALE BY LEVEL OF GOLEM 
32 tblp or less at 8th As Battle-Priest (41/14 @ 6th) 
39 tblp or less at 8th  As Thug (48/17 @ 6th) 
47 tblp or less at 8th As Spirit Warrior (53/18 @ 6th) 
56 tblp or less at 8th As Warrior (60/20 @ 6th) 
Higher than 56 tblp at 8th As Ogre (68/23 @ 6th) 
 
Construct type options 
Iron – prerequisite ‘MAC 1’: 
 Minor: May bond a metal weapon to them so that it becomes ‘part of them’ for the purposes of spells and effects.  
This means that the weapon cannot be removed from their grip by any means whatsoever, and is immune to effects 
which would destroy it, even Grand Shattering Blow or similar.  To use this ability requires the weapon to be held 
and concentrated on for 30 seconds.  To remove the weapon from the character’s grip similarly requires 30 seconds 
of concentration. 
 Medium: +1 stacking Strength, max +3. 
 Major: 66% Berserk Rage x1/3 levels only usable when in the presence of magic cast by someone other than 
themselves.  In this state the caster of the magic is the first choice of target, and any others who act in a hostile or 
threatening fashion must be attacked. 
 
Stone – prerequisite ‘Stability’ – may not be a blue mana user: 
 Minor: Statue x1/day.  May instantly enter a ‘statue’ form in which is invulnerable to all effects and damage, but 
may not take any action whatsoever in this form bar observe surroundings.  May be ended prematurely, otherwise 
lasts 15 minutes. 
 Medium: Now takes 1/4 less effect from sharp weapons of all sorts (not purely supernatural weapons). 
 Major: May inflict Knockback by weapon blow at will, costing 6 tblp for each such blow struck if +2 or greater 
strength is possessed, 9 tblp per blow struck otherwise however. 
 
Ice – prerequisite ‘Immunity to Cold’ – may not be a red mana user: 
 Minor:  Refract Light x1/2 levels – one light-based attack (such as a Laser Bolt, or a single blow from a Sabre of 
Light and Truth) has no effect. 
 Medium: Complete Immunity to Cold, as Winter Elf. 
 Major: May inflict damage as per Snowball, 12/12 magical cold damage, by touch at will for 6 TBLP per touch.  
This damage is not cumulative with unarmed combat damage however. 
 
Bronze – prerequisite ‘Stockiness’: 
 Minor: +0/3 locational life per 2 levels (i.e. +0/9 total at 6th) 
 Medium: Now takes 1/4 less effect from all solely physical damage. 
 Major: Immunity to Bruising and may round fractions down rather than up when calculating damage suffered. 
 
Greater Ogre 
Many Half-Ogres take more after one parent than the other - and Ogre nature being what it is it is commonly the ogre side 
that dominates.  Greater Ogres are, if possible, even bigger, greedier and stupider than their half-breed children.  This race is 
available to any Half-Ogre. 
 
CLASS ABILITIES 
  1 Ogres will always perceive any who give them existing food as friends, unless they or their tribe-
members are attacked by them.  +6/2 life.  This life is stacking with all other published life-points 
abilities unless they specify otherwise, but not with non-standard abilities which do not specifically 
mention this life.  
  2 +1 PAC (total). 
  3 Immunity to all Domination effects.  +12/4 life (total). 
  4 +2 PAC (total). 
  5 +18/6 life (total). 
  6 +3 PAC (total).  +1 Strength, stacking to +3 maximum. 


===== PAGE 90 =====

89 
 
High Elf 
Although it is generally accepted that elves are created by the mana dragons, there is some confusion as to their origin.  
Further confusing the issue are the High Elves - rarely seen, these creatures are often confused with half-breeds, but instead 
seem to be elves who have somehow achieved a different, more spiritual state, usually by some form of religious devotion 
(though not always).  The Lady of the Stars in particular is known for granting elves who dedicate themselves to her High 
Elf status.  This race may be purchased by any Half or Full Elf or Drave, including Drowe and Faeries. 
Note: Faeries pay the same cost as Drowe, Ivory Draves as Winter Elves.  
 
LEVEL ABILITIES 
  1 Now has a half-spirit, as Half-Elf.  Is no longer injured by Dispels.  Still Immune to Flesh and Blood 
effects to which an Elf is immune. 
Half Elves taking this option are now Immune to Flesh and Blood effects to the extent of an elf.  
  2 +1 DAC. 
  3 Gains Rebirth at 8th level (must have already bought Rebirth). 
  4 +2 DAC (total). 
  5 May now Rebirth at 8th keeping 1/3 of original points - must purchase High Elf first on rebirthing. 
  6 Those that were full Elves now have human life of same base class.   
Those that were Half Elves may now buy as full elf of their type. 
All elven handbook innates become mantic, so that affirms grant SAC additionally, etc.  
 
It should be noted that High Elven Drowe returners stay solely magical.  However for 40 points post-6th level they may be 
enhanced to be mantic, inflicting both spiritual and magical damage by purchasing Enhanced Returner. 
 
 
Hob-Goblin 
The biggest, most powerful Goblins naturally lord it over the smaller members of their race - Goblins have never been 
known for their compassion, and bullying comes naturally to them.   
The biggest and most belligerent of Goblins are suspected by those who study such matters to be an entirely different breed, 
cousin not brother to the normal Goblin that most people know.  These larger, nastier Goblins are called Hob-Goblins.  This 
race is available only to Goblins. 
 
LEVEL ABILITIES 
  1 Base life gained from this race is equal to that of a Half-Orc of equal level to multi-race level. 
(e.g. 6th level Half-Orc life at 6th). If the life from the Goblin’s base class now exceeds 48 as a result 
of this then it does increase their base life for life capping calculations. 
  2 May now wear any armour permitted for a Human of same class  
(No change for Shaman/Witch Doctor). 
  3 +1 PAC, gains ‘B’ skill and loses Goblin weapon restrictions, and E-skill if acquired may be used 
with any weapon the Hob-Goblin may use. 
  4 Loses Goblin racial Backstab skill - now inflicts +6 pts of base damage on blows where Backstab 
would normally be usable (may still acquire Backstab in other ways). 
  5 +2 PAC (total).   
Now has Insensitive Skin as tables ability. 
  6 Taunt x1/day - after spending 30 seconds verbally taunting and not fighting a target who 
understands their language, while continuing to do so the Hob-Goblin takes only 1pt of damage per 
grade inflicted by blows from the target, regardless of all other reductions including AC (cf. 
Rockskin), for a maximum of 5 minutes, or until taunting is stopped, whichever is shorter (50, 3). 
 
Post-6th: May buy Immunity to Poison and Immunity to Disease at half cost.  May buy ½ Orc racial abilities as a ½ Orc 
can (except Human Heritage), and may buy Strength ignoring Goblin restrictions. 
 
 
 


===== PAGE 91 =====

90 
 
Immortal 
Some individuals are just powerful and filled with mystical energies. The Mortal World is beneath them and they are 
touched by the mystical. 
 
LEVEL ABILITIES 
  1 Suffers 1/6 th less damage from physical attacks per level of this race (e.g. at 6th level is Immune to 
Physical Damage). 
Immunity to Flesh and Blood Effects (Including Potions, Poisons, and Pain). 
  2 Immortal Defence 1/2 Levels - Gains ¼ off all damage with a physical component. (75, 3) 
  3 Immunity to Ageing. Now only receives half effect from beneficial physical effects. 
  4 Empowered Defence 1/3 levels – Upgrades an Immortal Defence so that it grants 1/3 off damage. 
(25, 2) 
  5 Form of the Immortal 1/day – Grants complete Immunity to Physical Effects. Lasts 5 minutes. 
  6 Immortal Armour 1/day – Upgrades an Empowered Defence so that it grants a “Rockskin” style 
reduction vs. all damage with a physical component. (25,1) 
 
Post-6th: True Immortal – Gains complete Immunity to Physical at all times. 100 points. 
 
Mind Over Reality 
 
Those capable of controlling the powers of the mind to manipulate themselves sometimes advance so they can truly adjust 
how reality functions for them, twisting and changing their bodies to become impervious to the world. 
To buy this class must have Neuro-Mastery at will. 
 
LEVEL ABILITIES 
  1 Gains 1/6 th off all bar Physical and Neuronic per level. 
May never leave/buy as outside the neuronic bracket. 
May never Mind-Bar/become Immune to Neuronics. 
Must have at least 2 permanent (not items or focussing crystals) Neural Foci per level of this 
race purchased. 
  2 Reality Controlled 1/2 levels – Gains complete Immunity to Magic or Spirit for 5 minutes. 
  3 Can only be killed/have a location severed by Physical or Neuronic means. 
Now requires at least 3 permanent Neural Foci per level of this race. 
Gains immunity to beneficial effects that are not Neuronic or Physical in nature. 
  4 Disperse Mind 1/3 levels – Allows the target to enter a diffuse state. This acts as per a gaseous 
form except the user is only harmed by neuronics rather than miracles. 
  5 Forced Reality 1/day – 1st time it is need each day gains a stacking live to minus 6 that is 
neuronic only.  
  6 Alter Reality 1day – Counts as being in a Purity of Mind vs. one effect that just targeted them. 
Costs a level to use and must be declared within 2 seconds of suffering the effect. 
Must now have 4 permanent Neural Foci per level of this race (i.e. 24 to buy this level). 
 
Post 6th may buy resistances as a spiritless creature. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


===== PAGE 92 =====

91 
 
Ogre Magi 
Although Ogres are regarded as incredibly stupid and this is generally true, a rare few specimens naturally inherit genes of a 
magical nature, from a time in the distant past. Thought to be the product of some magical accident or ritual, Ogre-Magi are 
born with an innate natural, feral cunning far greater than that of their brothers, and an aptitude for magic that cannot be 
explained.   
It is assumed that whoever was responsible for the creation of the race was a blue wizard, as their talents lie mainly in the 
blue mana area.  It is actually true, however, that there are other versions of the Ogre Magi in the world aligned to the other 
elements. Those tied to blue mana are more commonly encountered though since they can use their talents to travel far and 
wide. 
This race is available to any Half-Ogre who has not entered the priest bracket (e.g. any shaman).  There is no alignment 
requirement. 
 
LEVEL ABILITIES 
  1 Has greater cunning than previously possessed, in general intelligence is now roughly equal to that 
of a Half-Orc warrior.   
Gains Recognise Mana at will.  May adapt verbals for spells in the same manner as a shaman or 
witch-doctor, as appropriate. 
Must now incorporate blue woad like markings into their makeup. 
  2 Puff of Air at will for 1 TBLP per use, Detect Magic x2/level innate (5,). 
  3 Shatter(r) x1/level innate (20,). 
  4 Storm Blast x1/level innate (30, 12). 
  5 Walk on Air(s) x1/2 levels innate (30, 12) 
  6 Lightning Bolt x1/3 levels innate (55, 6).  Now completely Immune to all Electrical Attacks. 
 
Post-6th: Ogre-Magi can additionally buy innates of other standard blue spells of 6th level or below at a cost of 10 points 
per mana point (e.g. 20 points for an innate Mend(r)), to a maximum of 3 of any one spell.  May acquire a second colour 
from red, green, grey, black or white (alignment not relevant) for 50 points, may then buy innates of standard spells of that 
colour in the same way as blue above. 
 
 
Primal Soul 
A surprisingly common phenomenon throughout Labyrinthia and Primus is the creature which shares aspects of its own 
race and those of another, typically animal in nature.  Sometimes whole settlements or tribes of these beings develop, 
but just as often they are individuals who grew up normally in their own society before realising there was something 
unusual about them.  Sometimes mistaken for were-creatures, in fact these people are simply touched by the soul or 
essence of a natural race.  This race is available to any race native to Primus (not Blauz, Ggrutuck, Duidoin, Elysians, 
Silverfolk – at this time none of these are fully accepted as part of Primus).   
 
LEVEL ABILITIES 
  1 Must select a creature which matches one of the below race types to represent the character’s primal 
soul.  For any choice other than Primal Bound, makeup/costume reminiscent of an appropriate 
creature of this type must now be worn. Primal creatures should be excellent examples of their race.   
+1 Dexterity AC. 
  2 Minor Power as listed below for type. 
  3 +2 Dexterity AC total. 
  4 Medium Power as listed below for type. 
  5 Discern Own Kind – at will by sight may recognise creatures of the race (not race type) chosen.  So 
a Primal Soul Wolf could identify all wolves, and so on.  This is a physical discern, and gives a 
Yes/No answer, and additional information about the target’s race at ref’s discretion – e.g. dire wolf, 
winter wolf, only part wolf, etc. 
  6 Major Power as listed below for type. 
 
Race choice (where there is more than one ability listed in a category, the character must select one of the abilities, 
recorded on card at time of purchase of the correct level): 
 
  


===== PAGE 93 =====

92 
 
Primal Bound: [Initial Race] 
 
In this case the character is in some way a ‘superior’ creature of their race, quicker of thought and act than a normal 
person. 
 
Minor – 
 +1 Dexterity AC cumulative with the racial DAC above 
 Lucky Idea x1/day 
 
Medium – 
 Lucky Idea x1/3 levels 
 Lightning Reactions 
 Physical Light-Step (as glyph but no verbal) x1/3 levels 
 Regeneration: Character heals at 1tblp and 1pt to the worst location per 5minutes whilst on Primus 
 
Major – 
 Max damage Quin with B class weapon wielded in two hands, if previously had max damage Quad. 
 Domination effects of all sorts last at most 30 seconds on character, or half previous duration if less. 
 Gains Immunity to Poison and Disease 
 
Predator 
 
This option covers most predatory animals in style, such as wolf, bear, or even shark.  Innates chosen should be 
appropriate to the specific creature chosen – for example a hawk soul might well fly, while a wolf soul would not. 
 
Minor – 
 Acute Hearing 
 Sniff and Locational Sniff 
 Tracking as Ranger 
 Flight – x1/3 levels for 5 minutes, may fly as per Walk on Air if on Primus, borne aloft by their primal nature 
rather than actual wings. (40, 3) 
 Gains Unarmed Combat with claws 
 Jump x1/2 levels (20, 3) 
 
Medium – 
 Perception and Supernatural Perception 
 Snarl x1/3 levels – acts as a physical Cause Fear to one target, and additionally causes fear in all normal animals 
within ear-shot.  (50, 3) 
 +1 max damage first blow of combat, no preparation required, stacking with other first-blow abilities such as tables 
30 second concentration ability 
 Regeneration: Character heals at 1tblp and 1pt to the worst location per 5minutes whilst on Primus 
 
Major – 
 Lightning Strike x1/3 levels – may call Time Freeze to strike one blow on a target within reach, to which they are 
immune if they have Lightning Reactions.  (80, 1) 
 Sense Motion as pathfinder, must have all prerequisite abilities to use. 
 Now inflicts ‘through PAC’ damage with unarmed combat at all times 
 
Prey 
 
This option covers most animals hunted as prey in style, such as deer, rats and bats.  Innates chosen should be 
appropriate to creature selected, as above. 
 
Minor –  
 Acute Hearing 
 Sniff and Locational Sniff 
 +1 Dexterity AC in addition to the race DAC above 
 Flight – x1/3 levels for 5 minutes may fly as per Walk on Air if on Primus, borne aloft by their primal nature rather 
than actual wings. (40, 3) 
 Jump x1/2 levels (20, 3) 


===== PAGE 94 =====

93 
 
 
Medium –  
 6th Sense. 
 +2 Dexterity AC in addition to the race DAC above, but non-cumulative with Minor Power. 
 Perception and Supernatural Perception 
 Physical Chameleon(s) x1/2 levels (40, 3) 
 Lightning Reactions 
 Regeneration: Character heals at 1tblp and 1pt to the worst location per 5minutes whilst on Primus 
 
Major – 
 No max AC and x2 Dexterity AC when doing nothing but flee (non-cumulative with Goblin racial ability) 
 +4 Dexterity AC in addition to the race DAC above, but non-cumulative with Minor or Medium Power. 
 Physical Light-Step (as glyph but no verbal required) x1/level, which may not be used to approach an enemy. 
  
Post-6th: May buy one additional Minor Power for 50pts, one additional Medium Power for 100pts and one additional 
Major Power for 150pt. That must be chosen from the same grouping as previous choices. 
 
 
Rock Troll 
Those Half-Trolls who are descended from the hardier Rock Troll branch of the troll families are prone to their trollish 
nature being dominant over their human side.  Rock Trolls are well-known for their slow, simple nature - almost as well 
known as for their incredible durability.   
This race is available to any Troll. 
 
LEVEL ABILITIES 
  1 Now immune to Flesh and Blood Effects, including ingestion (no longer affected by any form of 
potion).   
Must now incorporate stone and rocky complexion in to makeup worn. 
  2 +1 PAC (total).  
Gains an additional 3 points of live to minus, cumulative with all other live to minuses, per level of 
this multi-race (so at 6th level the troll gains an additional live to -18). 
Regeneration now heals a base of 1 TBLP and 1 to every injured loc, per 5 minutes. 
  3 +2 PAC (total).   
  4 +3 PAC (total).  Regeneration now heals a base of 2 TBLP and 2 to each injured loc, per 5 minutes. 
[note this is a +1x rate increase thus if triple rate was owned the total would be x4 rate not x6 
rate].  
  5 +4 PAC (total).   
All stone weapons striking the troll inflict damage as if the troll were benefiting from a Rockskin 
spell, at all times (i.e. 1pt per damage grade ignoring AC and all other reductions).  Innate PAC may 
always be applied to all weapon-blows with a physical component. 
  6 +5 PAC (total).  Regeneration is now enhanced as follows:  for warriors, permanent damage can be 
healed by natural regen only, except for that from fire or spirit; 
for shaman, spirit damage can be healed as normal by regen; 
for Witch Doctors, fire damage can be healed as normal by regen. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  


===== PAGE 95 =====

94 
 
Servants of the Spirits (Previously Balance) 
The Gods of Neutrality have as much need for loyal minions as any other, and the majority of these are, naturally enough, 
their priests.    
Those high in their God's favour are sometimes transformed to better enable them to act out their deity's will.   
This class is available to any neutrally-aligned Priest who has bought the ability Passive Spirit Sight from the tables. 
 
LEVEL ABILITIES 
  1 Is now Immune to all Flesh and Blood effects (inc. potions, pain, etc.).  
Counts in all ways as a Supernatural Neutral Creature From Another Plane. 
Requires silvery /grey swirls and/or runic markings over exposed skin. 
  2 Touch reads surface thoughts, as spiritual Psi-Scan, at will for 1 TBLP. 
Detect Spirits Nature at will, using full verbals as normal.   
  3 Detect Lie at will, for 3 TBLP (full handbook verbals). 
  4 Insight of the Spirits 1/day – With 30 seconds concentration can gain the ability to cast any one 
published neutral miracle for the remainder of the dungeon. The miracle must be one that could 
normally be learnt (sphere wise etc.) (75, 2). 
  5 Commune with the Gods x1/day (140, 2) 
  6 Gains permanent fully active Spirit Sight, revealing the spirits’ size and alignment. 
 
Shadow Daimon 
While the Lords of the Hells are well known for their use of the destructive power of fire, many prefer to use more subtle 
powers to bring woe to their enemies.  The users of shadow and stealth are less flamboyant than Fire Daimons, but their 
might is as great nonetheless - and the pacts they swear to gain their power are just as damaging to their souls.  This race is 
available to any evil non-elven, non-tribal character. Half-Elves and Half-Draves may purchase this race at normal cost. 
 
LEVEL ABILITIES 
  1 Must wear dark/black makeup at all times covering at least ½ of exposed skin.  May Extinguish 
lights within 10' at will, with full verbal as per the cantrip.  Now has a permanent mantic Ally 
Darkness (see Wizard's Grimoire) except it does not grant the ability to see through darkness.  
Counts as Daemonkind in all ways. 
  2 May Shadowmeld x1/level when not within 5' of a light-source or in direct daylight or supernatural 
light, as per Chameleon(s).  Once used is broken by the presence of supernatural light, but not 
natural light-sources (25,). 
Must purchase the ability “See Through Supernatural Darkness at all times” before buying this level. 
  3 Mantic Darkness(s) x1/2 levels (40, 6). 
  4 Mantic Shadowblade (see Wizard's Grimoire) x1/3 levels - blade inflicts magical and evil spiritual 
damage when used by the Daimon or any person able to use Evil spirit weapons, otherwise inflicting 
magic mantic damage only (75, 4). 
  5 Cloak of Darkness x1/3 levels.  As Invisibility, with the additional restriction that it cannot be used 
under the conditions listed for Shadowmeld above - immediately goes down if within 5' of any light-
source (80, 2). 
  6 Shadowshift x1/day as Wizard's Grimoire spell (60, 3). 
 
Post-6th: may buy: 
Magical Shadows: Whilst using Cloak of Darkness or Shadowmeld, becomes Immune to Mana and Elemental Sight if has 
Immunity to Informational Spells.  Cost: 80 pts. 
Spiritual Shadows: Whilst using Cloak of Darkness or Shadowmeld becomes Immune to Spirit Sight if has Immunity to 
Informational Miracles.  Cost: 90 pts. 
 
 
 
 
  


===== PAGE 96 =====

95 
 
Snaga Hai 
These are those Orcs who have hearkened back to their dark roots, following in the footsteps of their ancestors who lived 
deep in dark tunnels, emerging only at night to steal livestock, slaying from behind without ever being seen.   
This race is available only to Half-Orc scouts and assassins. 
 
LEVEL ABILITIES 
  1 Now always counts as if benefiting from the black Ally Darkness spell - Darkness(r) spells targeted 
on the Half-Orc move with them.  May now see through all forms of supernatural darkness. 
Must now incorporate black shadows/woad into make-up worn. 
  2 Now gains +2 DAC (total) in darkness. 
  3 Unassisted Climb - all Assisted Climbs used now need only two points of contact, last as long as the 
character keeps climbing, and may be at full speed (no running or fighting however).   
+1 stacking Backstab skill, stacking only with published Backstab. 
  4 Now gains +3 DAC (total) in darkness. 
  5 Bladelick x1/day - after licking the blade of a physical edged weapon, the next blow struck with that 
weapon within the next 5 minutes will inflict a physical Disease, otherwise as the Cause Disease 
miracle (50, 3). 
  6 Now has Sense Motion skill except in direct daylight or magical light. 
Must possess Perception and Supernatural Perception to use this ability. 
 
Post 6th: Snaga Hai can purchase Backstabs as a 1st Class Assassin. If already a 1st Class Assassin they can buy them 1 
table earlier. 
Spiritual Vessel 
The priest begins to embrace the spirits within them, strengthening the power they have over them, and abandoning the 
physical world. 
 
LEVEL ABILITIES 
  1 1/6 th off all bar Spirit per level. 
Immunity to Flesh and Blood Effects (including Potions, Poison). 
May never leave the priest bracket. 
  2 Immunity to Ageing 
  3 Can only be killed/have a location severed by spiritual means. 
Gains immunity to beneficial effects that are not spiritual in nature. 
May no longer cast Spiritual Invisibility or otherwise become Immune to Spirit. 
  4 Immunity to non-damaging effects which are not spiritual in nature. 
  5 Can only be knocked unconscious/have a location stop working through spiritual means 
  6 Is now completely immune to all bar spirits. 
 
Post 6th: Spiritual Nature- Gains ½ effect all magic based mantics (e.g. a mantic disruption). Cost 200 points 
Formless Being – No longer suffers damage to locations. Effects that inflict damage based on locational life (e.g. 
Sever) are calculated as if a person’s locations were 1/3rd of their TBLP. Now has a maximum permanent TBLP ever of 
48 with any above this becoming live to minus. Cost: 250 points, table 10. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  


===== PAGE 97 =====

96 
 
Titan 
The Champions of Combat. Bound to battle the Titans stand head and shoulders above most men. They walk the line 
between Mortal and Immortal on the battlefield. 
 
LEVEL ABILITIES 
  1 Immunity to Pain in all forms. 
+ 1 Stacking Strength (Max +3) 
  2 +3/1 Base life. 
Form of the Titan 1/2 Levels – Grants +36/12 temp life for 5 minutes, does not stack with 
supernatural temp life but does with physical temp life. (65, 2) 
  3 1/6 th off Weapon Blows. This will stack with the Battle-Master abilities. Greater Blade Fury to 
1/4 off and with Eye for an Opponent 1/3 off weapon blows. 
  4 +6/2 (from 3/1) Base life. 
Titan’s Strength 1/day – May remain conscious while in live to minus (providing some is 
owned) while in combat. Lasts 5 minutes. (50,1) 
  5 Immunity to Supernatural Ageing effects. 
1/4 off weapon blows (from 1/6th). Greater Blade fury now grants 1/3rd off and Eye for an 
Opponent 1/2 effect. 
  6 +9/3 (from 6/2) base life. 
Titan’s Endurance 1/day – Locations will continue to function until severed while in combat. 
Lasts 5 minutes. (75,1) 
Post 6th:  Titan’s Stamina – From Sleep off Perm. Permanent/incurable wounds can now be healed normally. Cost: 
100 points, table 11. 
Titans Body – Now gains 1/3 off weapon blows. Greater Blade Fury will stack with this to 1/2 effect weapon blows 
and Eye for an Opponent grants a Rockskin style defence vs. the chosen opponent. Cost: 250, table 10.  
 
 
Undead 
There are many reasons why adventurers turn to the power of undeath, but the problems they experience and the advantages 
they gain are generally the same. Voluntarily selling one's soul to dark powers for the sake of undeath is generally a gradual 
process, as the body slowly decays with the tainting of the spirit.  This race is available to any evilly aligned non-Elf/Drave 
or Faerie.  
Post-6th, buys as a full Undead, and see below. 
 
LEVEL ABILITIES 
  1 Now discerns as (and is, for all purposes) a Level 1 'Type Unknown' undead, dismiss name 'Lesser 
XXX'. (Must select Undead type from Ghoul/ Mummy/Wraith/Wight/Vampire).  Is now immune to: 
Repel and Attract Life, Restore and Animate Life, Discern Nature of Wounds.   
Requires appropriate make up to the type of undead chosen, e.g. rotten and fleshy for Ghouls, pale 
and ethereal for Wraiths.  
  2 Is now a Level 2 'Minor XXX' as above.  Now Immune to: Ebony spell Pain, Words of Pain and 
other effects which duplicate or are similar to it in effect (it is still possible however for undead to 
feel pain from weapon blows and similar), all forms of Disease, Adrenal Surge.  May buy 1st innate 
from chosen tree, and the appropriate ‘curing’ ability (each as many times as desired). 
  3 Is now a Level 3 'Minor XXX' as above.  Now immune to: Stunning Blow, Vicious Strike, Aging, 
Flesh and Blood effects. May buy 2nd innate from chosen tree. 
  4 Is now a Level 4 'XXX' as above.  Now immune to: Repel and Attract Edible, Empathic Healing.  
May buy 3rd innate from chosen tree. 
  5 Is now a Level 5 'XXX' as above.  Now immune to: Neuronics, physical Sleep.  May buy 4th innate 
from chosen tree (if appropriate). 
  6 Is now a Level 6 'Greater XXX' as above.  Now immune to: 
all miracles not listed as affecting the undead.   
May Increase Dismiss Level to 7 for 80 points. May buy Immunity to Dismiss miracles for 150 points. May buy 
Immunity to Undead Destruction effects (not Hand of Purity or Dismiss miracle), for 80 points. 
All (t) abilities are undead touch effects, and the effect of that single touch lasts 5 minutes unless this would be inappropriate 
(e.g. Level Drain is permanent until regained, Disease duration is as Cause Disease) 


===== PAGE 98 =====

97 
 
 
Ghoul Ability Cost 
1 - Paralysis(t) x1/day as Ghoul 40* 
2 - Blindness(t)x1/day 50* 
3 - Petrification(t) x1/day (the target is turned to stone temporarily, taking no harm from solely physical 
weapons) 
50* 
Cured 12/12 by use of one above ability per day 30* 
Mummy Ability Cost 
1 - Disease(t) x1/day as Mummy 40* 
2 - Contagion x1/day - for 5 minutes touch causes Disease at all times 100* 
3 - Contagious Disease x1/day - a Disease(t) where the target additionally Diseases everything they 
touch until the Disease is cured. Target may not be Immune to Disease, nor the user of the ability 
100* 
Healing Putrescence x1/day - one Disease ability from above used cures user 1/1 every minute the 
primary target is suffering from it (to a max of 1 hour) 
40* 
Wight Ability Cost 
1 - Freeze(t) x1/day as Wight 50* 
2 - Numbing Cold x1/day - 2pt Dex drain lasting 5 minutes unless target has Total Immunity to Cold.  
(4 hits to monsters).  If target reduced below 0 Dex AC, is unable to wield weapons/run. 
50* 
3 - Planeshift x1/day - as Wight. 100* 
Cured 12/12 by the use of one Freeze(t) or Numbing Cold per day 30* 
Wraith Ability Cost 
1 - Fear(t) x1/day as Wraith 30* 
2 - Level Drain(t) x1/day as Wraith 60* 
3 - Strength Drain(t) x1/day - drains target of one grade of strength (minimum 0) for five minutes.  If 
target falls below 0, unable to move or speak for duration 
75* 
4 - Walk through Walls x1/day for 5 minutes as Wraith 80* 
Cured 12/12 by use of one Level Drain(t) or Strength Drain(t) per day 30* 
Vampire Ability Cost 
1 - Beguile Spirit x1/day 35* 
2 - Double Level Drain(t) x1/day - drains 2 levels at once 90* 
3 - Gaseous Form x1/day for five minutes as Vampire 80* 
Cured 24/24 by drinking blood from one living target once per day (inflicts 24 TBLP/8 hits to target).  
Takes 5 seconds to perform. 
40* 
 
 
Uruk-Hai 
This is the race of Black Orcs, those Orcs tougher and meaner than others in a fight. They are naturally feisty, substantially 
more aggressive than their weaker cousins.   
Uruk-Hai require 'dirty’ makeup, an exaggerated version of the normal Half-Orc make-up requirements.  This multi-race is 
available only to Half-Orc warriors and thugs. 
LEVEL LIFE ABILITIES 
  1 33/11 May now see through all forms of supernatural darkness at all times. 
  2 40/13 +1 PAC.  Detrimental effects whose penalties are incurred over a duration, such as 
Disease or Words of Pain, take twice as long to affect. 
  3 47/16 No longer suffers DAC penalties in light. 
  4 54/18 +2 PAC (total). 
  5 61/20 May never be reduced below +1 strength (must have at least +1 strength to benefit from 
this ability). 
  6 68/23 +3 PAC (total). 
Black Fury - 50% berserk rage which also grants immunity to listed stopping effects for 
the duration of 5 minutes x1/day (100,2). 
 
  


===== PAGE 99 =====

98 
 
Vessel of the Dead 
 
A few poor souls are naturally tied to the Netherworld. While not undead themselves perhaps in a past life they were, 
or their bodies have once been tainted and the darkness never faded. Whatever the case they can oddly become undead 
while still alive. 
 
LEVEL ABILITIES 
  1 Is not tainted if raised as undead. If raised as undead then retains own personality. 
  2 Twist the Form 1/2 levels – May have a published raise undead miracle cast on self (by self or 
another) that requires a body. This allows the user to become that undead (hits, powers, undead 
nature etc. effectively they are that undead’s stats rather than their own) for 15 minutes or until 
the undead is slain. They are controlled by the individual that raised the undead as normal. If the 
undead is slain in that time then the person is halted regardless of resistances and effectively 
“appears” where they are. If the Undead is dismissed (or similar, including being controlled to 
return to their own place) then the user dies. (60,3) 
  3 Death’s Form 1/3 Levels – Acts as per an Incarna Mortis, but on self only. Does not suffer the 
normal “Kick out” (80,3) 
  4 Undead raised into the Vessel may now benefit from the physical armour and any grades of 
strength owned by it. 
  5 Death’s Form may now be used in response to an attack (Declared within 2 seconds) but it only 
applies to that single attack if used in this way. 
  6 Can now be animated as a zombie (as per Twist the Form) while alive once per hour. 
 
Post-6th: May upgrade level six ability so that it can be used 1/ 30 minutes on table 9 for 100 points and to 1/15 
minutes on table 10 for a further 100 points. 
 
 
Vessel of the Dragons 
As Wizards begin to master the elements of the world some seek to devoid themselves of their physical forms and instead 
become a thing of pure magic. 
 
LEVEL ABILITIES 
  1 1/6 th off all bar Magic per level. 
Immunity to Flesh and Blood Effects (including Potions, Poison, and Pain). 
  2 Immunity to Ageing. 
  3 Can only be killed/have a location severed by magical means. 
Is now harmed by Dispels as an Elf and as such may no longer cast Mana Shield or otherwise 
become immune to magic, doing so results in death. 
Gains Immunity to beneficial effects that are not magical in nature. 
  4 Immunity to non-damaging effects that are not magical in nature. 
  5 Can only be knocked unconscious/have a location stop working through magical means. 
  6 Is now completely immune to all bar Magic. 
 
Post 6th: May buy Resistance to Dispels as an Elf/Mantic Effects as an Elf. 
Formless Being – No longer suffers damage to locations. Effects that inflict damage based on locational life (e.g. 
Sever) are calculated as if the character’s locations were 1/3rd of their TBLP. Now has a maximum permanent TBLP 
ever of 48 with any above this becoming live to minus. Cost: 250 points, table 10. 
 
 
 
 
 
 


===== PAGE 100 =====

99 
 
Winter Barbarian 
Winter elves, unlike most other elven races, spent the childhood years of their race isolated from the rest of the world, living 
alone in the icy wastes which best suit their nature.  As any who have encountered one will know, they have still not entirely 
overcome their barbaric nature, but some groups still function entirely as barbarian tribes, to as great an extent as any other 
tribal community.  Individuals who favour this view of life are called Winter Barbarians.  Wizards who buy this multi-race 
become Witch Doctors of level equal to their base wizard level immediately on buying 1st level Winter Barbarian, as 
explained below.  This race is available to any Winter Elf. 
 
LEVEL ABILITIES 
  1 Counts in all ways as a Tribal character from this point; may join a Winter Barbarian tribe only.  Life 
now as Human of same base class by level, so at 6th would have 6th level Human life. 
  2 Gains Survival as Ranger in cold environments only. 
  3 Gains one innate Slip x1/2 levels (30,). 
  4 Gains one innate Wall of Ice x1/3 levels (40, 6). 
  5 Gains Perception skill as Ranger in ice/snow surroundings only. 
  6 Gains innate Freeze (t) x1/day as per non-level based version of the Freeze glyph at touch range (50, 
3). 
 
Post-6th: Winter Barbarians now buy as tribal creatures. May gain life as 8th level Human for 100pts. 
 
Witch Doctor Winter Barbarians are able to draw mana from all non-Drowe & Dark Elves (not Draves or Faeries), on 
adventure with them, at a rate of 2 mana per wizard level. This is enhanced to 4 mana per wizard level if the Elf in question 
is a Winter Barbarian in their tribe.   
Winter Barbarian Witch Doctors may buy Fetches for mana, each granting 2 mana per wizard level, in the same way as 
other Witch Doctors.  
 
 


===== PAGE 101 =====

100 
 
Multi-Race-Tables of Costs 
See notes at beginning of book for further clarification.  In this section of Evolution the option listed in the Header is 
the Multi-race being taken with the various starting options available listed beneath. 
 
Aligned Elf Lvl 1 Lvl 2 Lvl 3 Lvl 4 Lvl 5 Lvl 6 Notes 
Elf or Drave 10 20 140 150 160 200  
 
Angel of Mercy Lvl 1 Lvl 2 Lvl 3 Lvl 4 Lvl 5 Lvl 6 Notes 
Priest (Goodly) 75 140 180 260 340 610  
 
Angel of War  Lvl 1 Lvl 2 Lvl 3 Lvl 4 Lvl 5 Lvl 6 Notes 
Devout Believer (Goodly) 75 150 190 330 430 700  
Paladin 75 140 170 290 360 590  
Priest (Goodly) 75 140 170 290 360 590  
 
Angel Touched Lvl 1 Lvl 2 Lvl 3 Lvl 4 Lvl 5 Lvl 6 Notes 
All 50 100 160 250 300 500  
 
Child of the Pines Lvl 1 Lvl 2 Lvl 3 Lvl 4 Lvl 5 Lvl 6 Notes 
Any Neutral 75 220 240 290 380 650  
Any Druid Class 75 170 190 240 280 580  
Ranger 75 190 220 270 315 610  
 
Demon Bound Lvl 1 Lvl 2 Lvl 3 Lvl 4 Lvl 5 Lvl 6 Notes 
All 50 100 160 250 300 500  
 
Elder Fey Lvl 1 Lvl 2 Lvl 3 Lvl 4 Lvl 5 Lvl 6 Notes 
Any 50 230 290 350 400 550  
Alfar 50 60 120 180 230 380  
Drave 50 130 190 240 290 440  
Elf 50 130 190 240 290 440  
Faerie 50 130 190 240 290 440  
Half Elf 50 60 120 180 230 380  
 
Elements Bound Lvl 1 Lvl 2 Lvl 3 Lvl 4 Lvl 5 Lvl 6 Notes 
1st Class Wizard/High Wizard 50 300 350 500 550 800  
All within the Wizard bracket 50 300 360 520 580 850  
 
Fire Daimon Lvl 1 Lvl 2 Lvl 3 Lvl 4 Lvl 5 Lvl 6 Notes 
Red Mana User 80 105 150 250 410 690  
Any Evil 120 150 200 310 480 780  
 
Frost Giant [North Men] Lvl 1 Lvl 2 Lvl 3 Lvl 4 Lvl 5 Lvl 6 Notes 
Any 70 200 350 650 800 950  
 
Full Drowe Lvl 1 Lvl 2 Lvl 3 Lvl 4 Lvl 5 Lvl 6 Notes 
Half Drowe 10 125 160 200 215 320  
 
Full Elf Lvl 1 Lvl 2 Lvl 3 Lvl 4 Lvl 5 Lvl 6 Notes 
Half Elf 10 120 150 185 195 290  
 
Golem  Lvl 1 Lvl 2 Lvl 3 Lvl 4 Lvl 5 Lvl 6 Notes 
Mana User 75 210 340 380 690 810  
 
 
  


===== PAGE 102 =====

101 
 
Great Ogre Lvl 1 Lvl 2 Lvl 3 Lvl 4 Lvl 5 Lvl 6 Notes 
Ogre 50 80 280 310 360 480  
 
High Elf Lvl 1 Lvl 2 Lvl 3 Lvl 4 Lvl 5 Lvl 6 Notes 
Drowe Archer 60 100 120 160 420 670  
Drowe Scout Subclass 60 100 120 160 420 530  
Drowe Warrior 60 100 120 160 420 800  
Drowe Wizard 75 170 190 240 420 500  
Elven Archer 60 100 120 160 420 620 Not Drowe 
Elven Scout Subclass 60 100 120 160 420 480 Not Drowe 
Elven Warrior 60 100 120 160 420 730 Not Drowe / Winter 
Elven Wizard 75 170 190 240 420 480 Not Drowe 
Half Elf Priest Subclass 60 100 120 160 420 600  
Half Elf Scout Subclass 60 100 120 160 420 550  
Half Elf Warrior Subclass 60 100 120 160 420 570  
Half Elf Wizard Subclass 60 100 120 160 420 560  
Winter Elf Warrior 60 100 120 160 420 640  
 
Hobgoblin Lvl 1 Lvl 2 Lvl 3 Lvl 4 Lvl 5 Lvl 6 Notes 
Goblin Assassin 10 40 70 120 210 290  
Goblin Pathfinder 10 40 70 120 210 290  
Goblin Shaman 10 20 60 110 210 290  
Goblin Warrior 10 50 80 140 300 410  
Goblin Witch Doctor 10 20 60 110 210 260  
 
Immortal Lvl 1 Lvl 2 Lvl 3 Lvl 4 Lvl 5 Lvl 6 Notes 
Any 75 300 400 500 675 900  
 
Mind over Reality Lvl 1 Lvl 2 Lvl 3 Lvl 4 Lvl 5 Lvl 6 Notes 
Any 75 200 500 750 1000 1400  
  
 
Ogre Magi Lvl 1 Lvl 2 Lvl 3 Lvl 4 Lvl 5 Lvl 6 Notes 
Ogre 50 80 95 180 355 500  
 
Primal Soul Lvl 1 Lvl 2 Lvl 3 Lvl 4 Lvl 5 Lvl 6 Notes 
Any Native to Primus  40 90 150 250 280 460  
 
Rock Troll Lvl 1 Lvl 2 Lvl 3 Lvl 4 Lvl 5 Lvl 6 Notes 
Troll 75 260 320 480 600 750  
 
Servant of the Spirits Lvl 1 Lvl 2 Lvl 3 Lvl 4 Lvl 5 Lvl 6 Notes 
Neutral Priest 75 240 340 440 600 840  
 
Shadow Daimon Lvl 1 Lvl 2 Lvl 3 Lvl 4 Lvl 5 Lvl 6 Notes 
Any Evil 75 150 210 350 435 710  
Black Mana User 75 115 165 300 380 650  
 
Snaga Hai Lvl 1 Lvl 2 Lvl 3 Lvl 4 Lvl 5 Lvl 6 Notes 
Orc Assassin 75 105 190 220 270 375  
Orc Pathfinder 75 105 190 220 270 375  
 
Spiritual Vessel Lvl 1 Lvl 2 Lvl 3 Lvl 4 Lvl 5 Lvl 6 Notes 
Weapon Using Priest 75 600 800 1000 1200 1400  
Non-Weapon using Priest 75 500 650 800 950 1100  
 
 
  


===== PAGE 103 =====

102 
 
Titan Lvl 1 Lvl 2 Lvl 3 Lvl 4 Lvl 5 Lvl 6 Notes 
1st Class Warrior Subclass 75 290 400 530 700 900  
2nd Class Warrior Subclass 75 330 450 620 800 1050  
Spirit Warrior 75 390 510 680 860 1130  
 
Undead Lvl 1 Lvl 2 Lvl 3 Lvl 4 Lvl 5 Lvl 6 Notes 
Any Evil 50 170 270 350 500 560  
Priest (Evil) 40 140 230 300 450 500  
Unholy Champion 40 140 230 300 450 500  
 
Uruk Hai Lvl 1 Lvl 2 Lvl 3 Lvl 4 Lvl 5 Lvl 6 Notes 
Orc Thug 40 120 160 200 230 440  
Orc Warrior 40 120 160 200 230 440  
 
Vessel of the Dead Lvl 1 Lvl 2 Lvl 3 Lvl 4 Lvl 5 Lvl 6 Notes 
All 40 100 200 300 400 550  
 
 
Vessel of the Dragons Lvl 1 Lvl 2 Lvl 3 Lvl 4 Lvl 5 Lvl 6 Notes 
Elf/Spiritless 1st Class 
Wizard/High Wizard 
75 250 350 500 650 800  
Other Spiritless 75 250 400 600 800 1000  
½ elf 1st Class Wizard/High 
Wizard 
75 250 400 600 800 1000  
½ elf in the Wizard Bracket 75 250 450 650 900 1100  
1st Class Wizard/High Wizard 75 250 450 650 900 1100  
Within the Wizard Bracket 75 250 500 700 1000 1250  
 
 
Winter Barbarian Lvl 1 Lvl 2 Lvl 3 Lvl 4 Lvl 5 Lvl 6 Notes 
Winter Elf Archer 50 70 100 170 190 350  
Winter Elf Pathfinder 50 70 100 170 220 370  
Winter Elf Rogue 50 70 100 170 220 370  
Winter Elf Warrior 50 70 100 170 220 390  
Winter Elf Wizard 75 100 130 200 225 355  
 
 
 
